<?xml version='1.0' encoding='ISO-8859-1'?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.2//EN"
"http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.2/docbookx.dtd" [

  <!ENTITY dhfirstname "<firstname>Giovanni</firstname>">
  <!ENTITY dhsurname   "<surname>Mascellani</surname>">
  <!ENTITY dhdate      "<date>July 2007</date>">
  <!ENTITY dhsection   "<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>">
  <!ENTITY dhemail     "<email>g.mascellani@gmail.com</email>">
  <!ENTITY dhusername  "Giovanni Mascellani">
  <!ENTITY dhucpackage "<refentrytitle>WOTSAP</refentrytitle>">
  <!ENTITY dhpackage   "wotsap">

  <!ENTITY debian      "<productname>Debian</productname>">
  <!ENTITY gnu         "<acronym>GNU</acronym>">
  <!ENTITY gpl         "&gnu; <acronym>GPL</acronym>">
]>

<refentry>
  <refentryinfo>
    <address>
      &dhemail;
    </address>
    <copyright>
      <year>2007</year>
      <holder>&dhusername;</holder>
    </copyright>
    &dhdate;
  </refentryinfo>
  <refmeta>
    &dhucpackage;

    &dhsection;
  </refmeta>
  <refnamediv>
    <refname>&dhpackage;</refname>

    <refpurpose>Web of Trust statistics and pathfinder</refpurpose>
  </refnamediv>
  <refsynopsisdiv>
    <cmdsynopsis>
      <command>&dhpackage;</command>

      <arg><option>OPTIONS</option></arg>
      <arg>bottomkey <arg>topkey</arg></arg>
    </cmdsynopsis>
  </refsynopsisdiv>
  <refsect1>
    <title>DESCRIPTION</title>

    <para><command>&dhpackage;</command> is a pathfinder for the OpenPGP Web
      of Trust, which also produces some statistics and similar things. It
      obtains the description of the Web of Trust from a .wot file.</para>

    <para>OpenPGP is the most widely used email encryption standard, used by
      encryption software such as the GNU Privacy Guard (see
      <command>gnupg</command> (7)). To encrypt to someone or verify someone's
      signature, you need that persons OpenPGP key. Say you want to verify a
      digital signature made by Bob. To get Bob's key is easy
      with some help from keyservers, being sure you got the right key is the
      tricky part. This is accomplished either by meeting Bob in person and
      exchanging signatures, or by trusting someone else, who you have met in
      person, who claims to have met Bob. Or by trusting someone who has met
      someone who has met Bob. This gives rise to a completely decentralized
      network of trusts between people.</para>

    <para><command>&dhpackage;</command> lets you explore the Web of
      Trust. It works on a compressed copy of the Web of Trust in the
      .wot file format, generated daily and distributed on the site of
      <command>&dhpackage;</command> main writer.</para>

    <para>Running <command>&dhpackage;</command> you can specify on the command
      line just bottomkey, bottomkey and topkey or neither of them. They are the
      hexadecimal ID of the keys you want to investigate:</para>

    <itemizedlist>

      <listitem><para>If you don't specify any of bottomkey and topkey,
        <command>&dhpackage;</command> will just produce some piece of
        information on the Wot of Trust, such as the total number of key and
        signatures and the average signatures per key.</para></listitem>

      <listitem><para>If you specify only bottomkey, <command>&dhpackage;</command>
        will output detailed statistics about that key: how far are the other
        key in the Web from this, the Mean Shortest Distance for this key, which
        key have signed this key or are signed by this key. The Mean Shortest
        Distance is the average of the distances from all the keys in the Web of
        Trust to the key you under considaration. The distance from a key to
        another is the length of a minimal path from the first to the
        second.</para></listitem>

      <listitem><para>If you specify either bottomkey and topkey,
        <command>&dhpackage;</command> will search for all the minimal paths
        from bottomkey to topkey and output them.</para></listitem>

    </itemizedlist>

  </refsect1>
  <refsect1>
    <title>OPTIONS</title>

    <variablelist>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-h</option>
          <option>--help</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Show help.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>--version</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Show version.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-w</option>
          <option>--wot=FILE</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Read Web of Trust information from FILE. Defaults to
            ~/.wotsapdb. You can find the latest version of this file (generated
            daily) at http://www.lysator.liu.se/~jc/wotsap/wots2/latest.wot.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-m</option>
          <option>--modify=STR</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Use STR of WoT modification string.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-g</option>
          <option>--group</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Print signature matrix of comma separated keys. If there aren't
            any commas in the key specification, <command>&dhpackage;</command>
            will interpret it as a search string, and print the signature matrix
            of all the key, whose name or email contains the string.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-G</option>
          <option>--nounknowns</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Don't print unknown keys in the signature matrix.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-o</option>
          <option>--png=FILE</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Write an image of the graph of all the minimal paths between
            the two specified keys in FILE, in .png file format.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-O</option>
          <option>--show-png=PRG</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Like <option>-o</option>, but shows the image with PRG instead
            of writing it in a file. More precisely, it saves the minimal paths
            image in a temporary file, the executes 'PRG image_file' and, when
            PRG is over, deletes the temporary file.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-s</option>
          <option>--size=NNNxMMM</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>With <option>-o</option> or <option>-O</option> options, set the
            size of the generated image to NNNxMMM.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-F</option>
          <option>--font=FILE</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Use FILE as the font file, in .pil/.pbm format. Point
            it to the .pil file, with the .pbm file in the same directory.
            If no font specifications are given, <command>&dhpackage;</command>
            will try to use some fonts installed in the system, or fall back to
            a built-in one.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-T</option>
          <option>--ttffont=FILE</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Like <option>-F</option>, but with a TrueType font file.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-S</option>
          <option>--ttfsize=NUM</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>With <option>-T</option>, set the TrueType font size. Defaults
            to 16.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-p</option>
          <option>--print</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Print the whole Web of Trust in human readable format (very long
            output).</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-D</option>
          <option>--print-debug</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Print the debug information in the .wot file.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-d</option>
          <option>--diff=FILE</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Print all differences between two .wot files (namely, between
            the file specified with <option>-w</option> and that specified with
            this option).</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-M</option>
          <option>--msd</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Just show MSD for the specified key instead of full statistics.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-W</option>
          <option>--wanted[=NUM]</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Show the NUM (defaults to 10) 'most wanted signatures' for key
            (very long calculation time, try using <option>-r</option>).</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>-r</option>
          <option>--restrict=STR</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>Restrict wanted signatures with STR, implies -W.</para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>

    </variablelist>
  </refsect1>
  <refsect1>
    <title>SEE ALSO</title>

    <para><command>gnupg</command> (7), <command>gpg</command> (1).</para>
  </refsect1>
  <refsect1>
    <title>AUTHOR</title>

    <para>This manual page was written by &dhusername; &dhemail; for
      the &debian; system (but may be used by others), beacause the
      original program doesn't have a manual page.  Permission is
      granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
      the terms of the &gnu; General Public License, Version 2 any 
      later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
    </para>
	<para>
	  On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public
	  License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.
	</para>

  </refsect1>
</refentry>

